README.md, before:

# About

These are scripts for [Glyphs](https://glyphsapp.com/). Some may not work in Glyphs 3, WIP.
Some scripts use Vanilla.

## Installation: 
Put the scripts into Scripts folder: Library – Application Support - Glyphs - Scripts
(Cmd + Shift + Y) or through Plugin Manager in Glyphs 3.

## Align, Reflect and Rotate
Align and reflect nodes and handles. Useful with keyboard shortcuts — I personally use Ctrl + Cmd + Arrow keys. Set it in System Preferences – Keyboard – Shortcuts.

### Align scripts features:
* align selected nodes;
* align paths (select the whole path) and components;
* align node to the next / previous node (select one node only);
* align to the next closest measurment line (vertical metrics, half x-height, half cap-height);
* takes into account the italic angle (which is super duper cool!);
* takes into account smooth connection (“green” nodes)
* NEW: with Caps Lock on, you can now align the whole selection to glyph metrics / measurment lines (vertical metrics, half x-height, half cap-height)

Center Selected Glyphs sets equal left and right sidebearings within the same width for all layers of selected glyphs.

## Preferred Names
Sets (or cleans) *preferredFamily* and *preferredSubfamily* instance custom parameters. Based on *Font Family Name* and *Instance / Style Name*. Useful for office apps compatibility.

## Dark Mode
Toggles dark mode on and off.

## Toggle Axis 1
Toggles between masters across axis number 1 (or 2, 3, 4) in current tab.

## Toggle Italic
Toggles between upright and italic masters in current tab. Expects that italic and upright masters have the same axes values, except for different 'ital' or 'slnt'.
I use it with cmd+§. Same as Toggle Axis N, except for it doesn't care what number italic axis is.

## Demo Instance Generator
Generates instances with limited character set (customizable) from active instances. Adds “Demo” suffix, removes features and OT classes depending on the character set. Needs Vanilla.

## Text Filter
Removes all characters from a text, except selected ones. Useful for testing WIP fonts with limited character set. Needs Vanilla.

## G2 Harmonize
Harmonizes any selected on-curve points. Algorithm found at @simoncozens. Now the same as Green Harmony plugin.

## Dangerous Offcurves
Checks if there are any off-curve points (handles) dangerously close to their curve segment (that may cause problems with conversion to True Type bezier for variable fonts). Opens problematic layers in a new tab. Default threshold value is 0.05 units.

## Point Counter
Shows how many points are there in each layer of the current glyph. Useful for fixing interpolation.

## Kern to max
For the current pair in the edit view, sets the kerning to maximum. Maximum is the half width of the narrower layer in the pair. Useful for kerning (but not overkerning) stuff like .T. or 'A'

## Reorder Shapes
A better algorithm for correcting order of shapes (paths, components). It orders paths by length, y, and x. It orders components by glyph name, y, x.
Works somewhat more reliably than Glyphs' own shape ordering tool.

## Overlap Nodes
Very specific tool that helps to solve kinks on terminals between narrow and normal widths. Converts this:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/60325634/136535807-2c6927ad-ac17-4ab0-9ab2-64e8ee0b0668.png)


into this:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/60325634/136535872-cb9955f3-7462-4798-9fcf-afa402a0ff8a.png)



### License
Copyright 2020 Alex Slobzheninov.

Some algorithm input by Simon Cozens (@simoncozens).

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use the software provided here except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

See the License file included in this repository for further details.

Commit message:

Added description for Export to All Formats

README.md, after:

# About

These are scripts for [Glyphs](https://glyphsapp.com/). Some may not work in Glyphs 3, WIP.
Some scripts use Vanilla.

## Installation: 
Put the scripts into Scripts folder: Library – Application Support - Glyphs - Scripts
(Cmd + Shift + Y) or through Plugin Manager in Glyphs 3.

## Align, Reflect and Rotate
Align and reflect nodes and handles. Useful with keyboard shortcuts — I personally use Ctrl + Cmd + Arrow keys. Set it in System Preferences – Keyboard – Shortcuts.

### Align scripts features:
* align selected nodes;
* align paths (select the whole path) and components;
* align node to the next / previous node (select one node only);
* align to the next closest measurment line (vertical metrics, half x-height, half cap-height);
* takes into account the italic angle (which is super duper cool!);
* takes into account smooth connection (“green” nodes)
* NEW: with Caps Lock on, you can now align the whole selection to glyph metrics / measurment lines (vertical metrics, half x-height, half cap-height)

Center Selected Glyphs sets equal left and right sidebearings within the same width for all layers of selected glyphs.

## Export to All Formats
Batch-exports the currently active font to otf, ttf and web formats (woff, woff2). Optionally, exports each format to a subfolder. Ignores variable exports.

## Preferred Names
Sets (or cleans) *preferredFamily* and *preferredSubfamily* instance custom parameters. Based on *Font Family Name* and *Instance / Style Name*. Useful for office apps compatibility.

## Dark Mode
Toggles dark mode on and off.

## Toggle Axis 1
Toggles between masters across axis number 1 (or 2, 3, 4) in current tab.

## Toggle Italic
Toggles between upright and italic masters in current tab. Expects that italic and upright masters have the same axes values, except for different 'ital' or 'slnt'.
I use it with cmd+§. Same as Toggle Axis N, except for it doesn't care what number italic axis is.

## Demo Instance Generator
Generates instances with limited character set (customizable) from active instances. Adds “Demo” suffix, removes features and OT classes depending on the character set. Needs Vanilla.

## Text Filter
Removes all characters from a text, except selected ones. Useful for testing WIP fonts with limited character set. Needs Vanilla.

## G2 Harmonize
Harmonizes any selected on-curve points. Algorithm found at @simoncozens. Now the same as Green Harmony plugin.

## Dangerous Offcurves
Checks if there are any off-curve points (handles) dangerously close to their curve segment (that may cause problems with conversion to True Type bezier for variable fonts). Opens problematic layers in a new tab. Default threshold value is 0.05 units.

## Point Counter
Shows how many points are there in each layer of the current glyph. Useful for fixing interpolation.

## Kern to max
For the current pair in the edit view, sets the kerning to maximum. Maximum is the half width of the narrower layer in the pair. Useful for kerning (but not overkerning) stuff like .T. or 'A'

## Reorder Shapes
A better algorithm for correcting order of shapes (paths, components). It orders paths by length, y, and x. It orders components by glyph name, y, x.
Works somewhat more reliably than Glyphs' own shape ordering tool.

## Overlap Nodes
Very specific tool that helps to solve kinks on terminals between narrow and normal widths. Converts this:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/60325634/136535807-2c6927ad-ac17-4ab0-9ab2-64e8ee0b0668.png)


into this:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/60325634/136535872-cb9955f3-7462-4798-9fcf-afa402a0ff8a.png)



### License
Copyright 2020 Alex Slobzheninov.

Some algorithm input by Simon Cozens (@simoncozens).

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use the software provided here except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

See the License file included in this repository for further details.
